There is a genre of videos and articles that consists of making lists. I sometimes browse these lists—whenever I need a new appliance, for instance, I’m prone to Googling ‘best vacuum cleaners’ and finding a list. At one point, the best way to get a good list of things was to append ‘reddit’ to your search query. You’d then find an article, post, or video that walked you through your options. It’s a very useful format, and I think that explains its popularity. In many domains, we want a single verdict on what to buy or consume. I don’t want to become an expert on vacuum cleaners: I just want the best one, the one that will last, or the one that fits my budget.

We don’t limit these lists to vacuum cleaners and household appliances, however. We also like to rank various forms of media. Thus, on YouTube, you will find videos like ‘The 10 Best Fantasy Novels of All Time’, or ‘Ranking the Best Detective Novels,’ or ‘The 17 Greatest Romantasy Novels with Dark Academia Tropes.’ I have made a few of these videos myself, though I tended to prefer the phrase ‘My Favorite’ over ‘The Best’ in my titles.

Recently, The Guardian released their own list, which was described as ‘the greatest literature ever published in English.’

You can browse the list for yourself, and I think you’ll find that every book on there is good, perhaps even great. You can also find their list of judges and see the 10 books each judge chose. (I assume the final list was based on aggregate scores—though I didn’t see a methodology section in the article.) I spent some time browsing the various judges’ picks, and I found those lists to be considerably more interesting than The Guardian’s final list, for reasons I’ll explore below.

Middlemarch is a highly unusual novel. Although it is primarily a Victorian novel, it has many characteristics typical to modern novels. Critical reaction to Eliot's masterpiece work was mixed. A common accusation leveled against it was its morbid, depressing tone. Many critics did not like Eliot's habit of scattering obscure literary and scientific allusions throughout the book. In their opinion a woman writer should not be so intellectual. Eliot hated the "silly, women novelists." In the Victorian era, women writers were generally confined to writing the stereotypical fantasies of the conventional romance fiction. Not only did Eliot dislike the constraints imposed on women's writing, she disliked the stories they were expected to produce. Her disdain for the tropes of conventional romance is apparent in her treatment of marriage between Rosamond and Lydgate. Both and Rosamond and Lydgate think of courtship and romance in terms of ideals taken directly from conventional romance. Another problem with such fiction is that marriage marks the end of the novel. Eliot goes through great effort to depict the realities of marriage.

When her father leaves the Church in a crisis of conscience, Margaret Hale is uprooted from her comfortable home in Hampshire to move with her family to the north of England. Initially repulsed by the ugliness of her new surroundings in the industrial town of Milton, Margaret becomes aware of the poverty and suffering of the local mill workers and develops a passionate sense of social justice. This is intensified by her tempestuous relationship with the mill-owner and self-made man, John Thornton, as their fierce opposition over his treatment of his employees masks a deeper attraction.

In North and South, Elizabeth Gaskell skillfully fuses individual feeling with social concern, and in Margaret Hale creates one of the most original heroines of Victorian literature.

The complex story of a notorious law-suit in which love and inheritance are set against the classic urban background of 19th-century London, where fog on the river, seeping into the very bones of the characters, symbolizes the corruption of the legal system and the society which supports it.

“Jarndyce and Jarndyce” is an infamous lawsuit that has been in process for generations. Nobody can remember exactly how the case started but many different individuals have found their fortunes caught up in it. Esther Summerson watches as her friends and neighbours are consumed by their hopes and disappointments with the proceedings. But while the intricate puzzles of the lawsuit are being debated by lawyers, other more dramatic mysteries are unfolding that involve heartbreak, lost children, blackmail and murder.

The fog and cold that permeate Bleak House mirror a Victorian England mired in spiritual insolvency. Dickens brought all his passion, brilliance, and narrative verve to this huge novel of lives entangled in a multi-generational lawsuit—and through it, he achieved, at age 41, a stature almost Shakespearean.

Independent and spirited Bathsheba Everdene has come to Weatherbury to take up her position as a farmer on the largest estate in the area. Her bold presence draws three very different suitors: the gentleman-farmer Boldwood, soldier-seducer Sergeant Troy and the devoted shepherd Gabriel Oak. Each, in contrasting ways, unsettles her decisions and complicates her life, and tragedy ensues, threatening the stability of the whole community. The first of his works set in the fictional county of Wessex, Hardy's novel of swift passion and slow courtship is imbued with his evocative descriptions of rural life and landscapes, and with unflinching honesty about sexual relationships.

To secure commitments from participants for the full text of a Community or Business Group Report, the group may call for voluntary commitments to the following terms; a "summary" is available. See also the related "W3C Community Contributor License Agreement".
1. The Purpose of this Agreement.
This Agreement sets forth the terms under which I make certain copyright and patent rights available to you for your implementation of the Specification. 
Any other capitalized terms not specifically defined herein have the same meaning as those terms have in the "W3C Patent Policy", and if not defined there, in the "W3C Process Document".
2. Copyrights. 
2.1. Copyright Grant. I grant to you a perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright), worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, copyright license, without any obligation for accounting to me, to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, distribute, and implement the Specification to the full extent of my copyright interest in the Specification. 
2.2. Attribution. As a condition of the copyright grant, you must include an attribution to the Specification in any derivative work you make based on the Specification. That attribution must include, at minimum, the Specification name and version number.
3. Patents. 
3.1. Patent Licensing Commitment. I agree to license my Essential Claims under the W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements. This requirement includes Essential Claims that I own and any that I have the right to license without obligation of payment or other consideration to an unrelated third party. W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements obligations made concerning the Specification and described in this policy are binding on me for the life of the patents in question and encumber the patents containing Essential Claims, regardless of changes in participation status or W3C Membership. I also agree to license my Essential Claims under the W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements in derivative works of the Specification so long as all normative portions of the Specification are maintained and that this licensing commitment does not extend to any portion of the derivative work that was not included in the Specification.
3.2. Optional, Additional Patent Grant. In addition to the provisions of Section 3.1, I may also, at my option, make certain intellectual property rights infringed by implementations of the Specification, including Essential Claims, available by providing those terms via the W3C Web site.
4. No Other Rights. Except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, no other express or implied patent, trademark, copyright, or other property rights are granted under this Agreement, including by implication, waiver, or estoppel.
5. Antitrust Compliance. I acknowledge that I may compete with other participants, that I am under no obligation to implement the Specification, that each participant is free to develop competing technologies and standards, and that each party is free to license its patent rights to third parties, including for the purpose of enabling competing technologies and standards.
6. Non-Circumvention. I agree that I will not intentionally take or willfully assist any third party to take any action for the purpose of circumventing my obligations under this Agreement.
7. Transition to W3C Recommendation Track. The Specification developed by the Project may transition to the W3C Recommendation Track. The W3C Team is responsible for notifying me that a Corresponding Working Group has been chartered. I have no obligation to join the Corresponding Working Group. If the Specification developed by the Project transitions to the W3C Recommendation Track, the following terms apply: 
7.1. If I join the Corresponding Working Group. If I join the Corresponding Working Group, I will be subject to all W3C rules, obligations, licensing commitments, and policies that govern that Corresponding Working Group.
7.2. If I Do Not Join the Corresponding Working Group. 
7.2.1. Licensing Obligations to Resulting Specification. If I do not join the Corresponding Working Group, I agree to offer patent licenses according to the W3C Royalty-Free licensing requirements described in Section 5 of the W3C Patent Policy for the portions of the Specification included in the resulting Recommendation. This licensing commitment does not extend to any portion of an implementation of the Recommendation that was not included in the Specification. This licensing commitment may not be revoked but may be modified through the exclusion process defined in Section 4 of the W3C Patent Policy. I am not required to join the Corresponding Working Group to exclude patents from the W3C Royalty-Free licensing commitment, but must otherwise follow the normal exclusion procedures defined by the W3C Patent Policy. The W3C Team will notify me of any Call for Exclusion in the Corresponding Working Group as set forth in Section 4.5 of the W3C Patent Policy.
7.2.2. No Disclosure Obligation. If I do not join the Corresponding Working Group, I have no patent disclosure obligations outside of those set forth in Section 6 of the W3C Patent Policy.
8. Conflict of Interest. I will disclose significant relationships when those relationships might reasonably be perceived as creating a conflict of interest with my role. I will notify W3C of any change in my affiliation using W3C-provided mechanisms.
9. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimers. I represent and warrant that I am legally entitled to grant the rights and promises set forth in this Agreement. IN ALL OTHER RESPECTS THE SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” The entire risk as to implementing or otherwise using the Specification is assumed by the implementer and user. Except as stated herein, I expressly disclaim any warranties (express, implied, or otherwise), including implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, fitness for a particular purpose, or title, related to the Specification. IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR LOST PROFITS OR ANY FORM OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER FROM ANY CAUSES OF ACTION OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. All of my obligations under Section 3 regarding the transfer, successors in interest, or assignment of Granted Claims will be satisfied if I notify the transferee or assignee of any patent that I know contains Granted Claims of the obligations under Section 3. Nothing in this Agreement requires me to undertake a patent search.
10. Definitions. 
10.1. Agreement. “Agreement” means this W3C Community Final Specification Agreement.
10.2. Corresponding Working Group. “Corresponding Working Group” is a W3C Working Group that is chartered to develop a Recommendation, as defined in the W3C Process Document, that takes the Specification as an input.
10.3. Essential Claims. “Essential Claims” shall mean all claims in any patent or patent application in any jurisdiction in the world that would necessarily be infringed by implementation of the Specification. A claim is necessarily infringed hereunder only when it is not possible to avoid infringing it because there is no non-infringing alternative for implementing the normative portions of the Specification. Existence of a non-infringing alternative shall be judged based on the state of the art at the time of the publication of the Specification. The following are expressly excluded from and shall not be deemed to constitute Essential Claims: 
10.3.1. any claims other than as set forth above even if contained in the same patent as Essential Claims; and
10.3.2. claims which would be infringed only by: 
portions of an implementation that are not specified in the normative portions of the Specification, or
enabling technologies that may be necessary to make or use any product or portion thereof that complies with the Specification and are not themselves expressly set forth in the Specification (e.g., semiconductor manufacturing technology, compiler technology, object-oriented technology, basic operating system technology, and the like); or
the implementation of technology developed elsewhere and merely incorporated by reference in the body of the Specification.
10.3.3. design patents and design registrations.
For purposes of this definition, the normative portions of the Specification shall be deemed to include only architectural and interoperability requirements. Optional features in the RFC 2119 sense are considered normative unless they are specifically identified as informative. Implementation examples or any other material that merely illustrate the requirements of the Specification are informative, rather than normative.
10.4. I, Me, or My. “I,” “me,” or “my” refers to the signatory.
10.5 Project. “Project” means the W3C Community Group or Business Group for which I executed this Agreement.
10.6. Specification. “Specification” means the Specification identified by the Project as the target of this agreement in a call for Final Specification Commitments. W3C shall provide the authoritative mechanisms for the identification of this Specification.
10.7. W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements. “W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements” license shall mean a non-assignable, non-sublicensable license to make, have made, use, sell, have sold, offer to sell, import, and distribute and dispose of implementations of the Specification that: 
10.7.1. shall be available to all, worldwide, whether or not they are W3C Members;
10.7.2. shall extend to all Essential Claims owned or controlled by me;
10.7.3. may be limited to implementations of the Specification, and to what is required by the Specification;
10.7.4. may be conditioned on a grant of a reciprocal RF license (as defined in this policy) to all Essential Claims owned or controlled by the licensee. A reciprocal license may be required to be available to all, and a reciprocal license may itself be conditioned on a further reciprocal license from all.
10.7.5. may not be conditioned on payment of royalties, fees or other consideration;
10.7.6. may be suspended with respect to any licensee when licensor issued by licensee for infringement of claims essential to implement the Specification or any W3C Recommendation;
10.7.7. may not impose any further conditions or restrictions on the use of any technology, intellectual property rights, or other restrictions on behavior of the licensee, but may include reasonable, customary terms relating to operation or maintenance of the license relationship such as the following: choice of law and dispute resolution;
10.7.8. shall not be considered accepted by an implementer who manifests an intent not to accept the terms of the W3C Community RF Licensing Requirements license as offered by the licensor.
10.7.9. The RF license conforming to the requirements in this policy shall be made available by the licensor as long as the Specification is in effect. The term of such license shall be for the life of the patents in question.
I am encouraged to provide a contact from which licensing information can be obtained and other relevant licensing information. Any such information will be made publicly available. 
10.8. You or Your. “You,” “you,” or “your” means any person or entity who exercises copyright or patent rights granted under this Agreement, and any person that person or entity controls.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and/or associated documentation files (the "Materials"), to deal in the Materials without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Materials, and to permit persons to whom the Materials are furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Materials.
THE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE MATERIALS OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE MATERIALS.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and

You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License. You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.